 A university (from Latin universitas ' a whole ' ) is an institution of tertiary education and research which awards academic degrees in several academic disciplines . [ 1 ] University is derived from the Latin phrase universitas magistrorum et scholarium , which roughly means "community of teachers and scholars". [ 2 ] Universities typically offer both undergraduate and postgraduate programs. The first universities were developed in Europe from schools that had been maintained by the Church for the purpose of educating priests. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] The University of Bologna ( Università di Bologna ), Italy , which was founded in 1088, is the first university in the sense of: The original Latin word universitas refers in general to "a number of persons associated into one body, a society, company, community, guild, corporation , etc". [ 13 ] [ page needed ] As urban town life and medieval guilds developed, specialized associations of students and teachers with collective legal rights (these rights were usually guaranteed by charters issued by princes , prelates , or their towns ) became denominated by this general term. Like other guilds, they were self-regulating and determined the qualifications of their members. [ 14 ] In modern usage, the word has come to mean "an institution of higher education offering tuition in mainly non-vocational subjects and typically having the power to confer degrees". [ 15 ] The earlier emphasis on its corporate organization is no longer the primary feature by which a modern university is recognized. [ 16 ] The original Latin word referred to degree-awarding institutions of learning in Western and Central Europe , where this form of legal organisation was prevalent and from where the institution spread around the world. [ 17 ] An important idea in the definition of a university is the notion of academic freedom . The first documentary evidence of this comes from early in the life of the University of Bologna , which adopted an academic charter, the Constitutio Habita , [ 18 ] in 1155 or 1158, [ 19 ] which guaranteed the right of a traveling scholar to unhindered passage in the interests of education. Today, this is claimed as the origin of "academic freedom". [ 20 ] On 18 September 1988, 430 university rectors signed the Magna Charta Universitatum , [ 21 ] marking the 900th anniversary of Bologna's foundation. There is debate over the extent to which academic freedom at publicly funded universities is subject to accountability for the use of public resources; i.e., whether academics' research and teaching should support public goods such as social justice or whether there is also a prerogative to pursue  knowledge for its own sake. [ 22 ] The School of Alexandria was established during the 2nd century A.D. Apart from subjects like theology, Christian philosophy and the Bible; science, mathematics and Greek and Roman literature, logic and the arts were also taught. The question-and-answer method of commentary began there, and blind students at the school were using wood-carving techniques to read and write. The first figures of the Church in Egypt were scholars rather than bishops, directors of the Catechetical School of Alexandria: Clement (160–215) and Origen (185–251). [ 23 ] Nalanda mahavihara was established by emperor Kumaragupta I of the Gupta Empire around 427 CE, became a major Buddhist learning hub, attracting scholars like Xuanzang . It was destroyed in 1202 CE by Bakhtiyar Khilji. [ 24 ] [ 25 ] The characterization of Nalanda as a "university" in the modern sense has been challenged by scholars. They argue that while it was undoubtedly a major center of learning, comparing it directly to a modern university is historically imprecise. [ 26 ] [ 27 ] During and after the mission of St Augustine to England, cathedral schools were established as the new dioceses were themselves created (Canterbury 597, Rochester 604, York 627, for example). Cathedral schools arose in major cities such as Chartres, Orleans, Paris, Laon, Reims or Rouen in France and Utrecht, Liege, Cologne, Metz, Speyer, Würzburg, Bamberg, Magdeburg, Hildesheim or Freising in Germany. Speyer was renowned for supplying the Holy Roman Empire with diplomats. [ 28 ] The court of Henry I of England , was tied to the cathedral school of Laon . [ 29 ] Centers of learning were found in seventh-century Spain, both at major monasteries and at episcopal centers.  Students at the monastery of Saints Cosmas and Damian , at Agali near Toledo , learned such scientific subjects as medicine and the rudiments of astronomy. [ 30 ] In the heyday of the monastic schools in the 9th and 10th centuries, the teachings of important scholars such as Alcuin , Hrabanus Maurus , Heiric of Auxerre and Notker Balbulus raised the prestige of their abbeys and attracted pupils from afar to attend their courses. [ 31 ] An early institution is the Madrasa of Harran , founded in the late 8th century . [ 32 ] Scholars occasionally call the University of al-Qarawiyyin (name given in 1963), founded as a mosque by Fatima al-Fihri in 859 CE, a university, [ 33 ] [ 34 ] [ 35 ] [ 36 ] although Jacques Verger [ fr ] writes that this is done out of scholarly convenience. [ 37 ] Several scholars consider that al-Qarawiyyin was founded [ 38 ] [ 39 ] and run [ 40 ] [ 41 ] [ 42 ] [ 43 ] [ 44 ] as a madrasa until after World War II . They date the transformation of the madrasa of al-Qarawiyyin into a university to its modern reorganization in 1963. [ 45 ] [ 46 ] [ 40 ] In the wake of these reforms, al-Qarawiyyin was officially renamed "University of Al Quaraouiyine" two years later. [ 45 ] Some scholars, including George Makdisi, have argued that early medieval universities were influenced by the madrasas in Al-Andalus , the Emirate of Sicily , and the Middle East during the Crusades . [ 47 ] [ 48 ] [ 49 ] Norman Daniel, however, views this argument as overstated. [ 50 ] Universities and madrasas differed in several major respects. [ 51 ] In 2013, Roy Lowe and Yoshihito Yasuhara claimed that the influences of scholarship from the Islamic world on the universities of Western Europe requires a reconsideration of the development of higher education, turning away from a concern with local institutional structures to a broader consideration within a global context. [ 52 ] Although there are antecedents, the modern university is generally regarded as a formal institution that has its origin in the Medieval Christian tradition. [ 55 ] [ 56 ] European higher education took place for hundreds of years in cathedral schools or monastic schools ( scholae monasticae ), in which monks and nuns taught classes; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the later university at many places dates back to the 6th century. [ 57 ] In Europe, young men proceeded to university when they had completed their study of the trivium – the preparatory arts of grammar , rhetoric and dialectic or logic –and the quadrivium : arithmetic , geometry , music , and astronomy . The earliest universities were developed under the aegis of the Latin Church by papal bull as studia generalia and perhaps from cathedral schools. It is possible, however, that the development of cathedral schools into universities was quite rare, with the University of Paris being an exception. [ 58 ] Later they were also founded by kings - but with prior papal approval. [ 59 ] ( University of Naples Federico II , Charles University in Prague , Jagiellonian University in Kraków ) or municipal administrations ( University of Cologne , University of Erfurt ). Most of the early universities of the high medieval period were founded from pre-existing schools, usually when these schools were deemed to have become primarily sites of higher education. Many historians state that universities and cathedral schools were a continuation of the interest in learning promoted by monasteries . [ 60 ] Pope Gregory VII was crucial in promoting and regulating the concept of modern university, as his 1079 Papal Decree ordered the regulated establishment of cathedral schools that transformed themselves into the first European universities. [ 61 ] The first universities in Europe with a form of corporate/guild structure were the University of Bologna ( c. 1180–1190 ), [ 62 ] the University of Paris ( c. 1208–1210 , [ 63 ] later associated with the Sorbonne ), and the University of Oxford ( c. 1200–1214 ). [ 64 ] The University of Bologna began as a law school teaching the ius gentium or Roman law of peoples which was in demand across Europe for those defending the right of incipient nations against empire and church. The University of Bologna, or Alma Mater Studiorum , is widely recognized as the oldest university that is independent of any direct authority, such as kings, emperors, or religious organizations. Bologna's claim to being the oldest university is based on its unique characteristics, such as its autonomy and its ability to grant degrees. [ 65 ] [ 66 ] The conventional date for the start of teaching at Bologna of 1088, or 1087 according to some, [ 67 ] records when Irnerius commenced teaching Emperor Justinian's 6th-century codification of Roman law , the Corpus Iuris Civilis , recently discovered at Pisa. Lay students arrived in the city from many lands entering into a contract to gain this knowledge, eventually organising themselves into Nationes , divided between that of the Cismontanes and that of the Ultramontanes. The students "had all the power ... and dominated the masters". [ 68 ] [ 69 ] All over Europe, rulers and city governments began to create universities to satisfy a European thirst for knowledge, and the belief that society would benefit from the scholarly expertise generated from these institutions. Princes and leaders of city governments perceived the potential benefits of having a scholarly expertise developed with the ability to address difficult problems and achieve desired ends. The emergence of humanism was essential to this understanding of the possible utility of universities as well as the revival of interest in knowledge gained from ancient Greek texts. [ 70 ] The recovery of Aristotle 's works – more than 3000 pages of it would eventually be translated – fuelled a spirit of inquiry into natural processes that had already begun to emerge in the 12th century. Some scholars believe that these works represented one of the most important document discoveries in Western intellectual history. [ 71 ] Richard Dales, for instance, calls the discovery of Aristotle's works "a turning point in the history of Western thought." [ 72 ] After Aristotle re-emerged, a community of scholars, primarily communicating in Latin, accelerated the process and practice of attempting to reconcile the thoughts of Greek antiquity, and especially ideas related to understanding the natural world, with those of the church. The efforts of this " scholasticism " were focused on applying Aristotelian logic and thoughts about natural processes to biblical passages and attempting to prove the viability of those passages through reason. This became the primary mission of lecturers, and the expectation of students. The university culture developed differently in northern Europe than it did in the south, although the northern (primarily Germany, France and Great Britain ) and southern universities (primarily Italy) did have many elements in common. Latin was the language of the university, used for all texts, lectures, disputations and examinations. Professors lectured on the books of Aristotle for logic, natural philosophy , and metaphysics ; while Hippocrates , Galen , and Avicenna were used for medicine. Outside of these commonalities, great differences separated north and south, primarily in subject matter. Italian universities focused on law and medicine, while the northern universities focused on the arts and theology. The quality of instruction in the different areas of study varied, depending on the university's focus. This led scholars to travel north or south based on their interests and means. The universities also awarded different types of degrees. English, French and German universities usually awarded bachelor's degrees, with the exception of degrees in theology, for which the doctorate was more common. Italian universities awarded primarily doctorates. The distinction can be attributed to the intent of the degree holder after graduation – in the north the focus tended to be on acquiring teaching positions, while in the south students often went on to professional positions. [ 73 ] The structure of northern universities tended to be modeled after the system of faculty governance developed at the University of Paris . Southern universities tended to be patterned after the student-controlled model begun at the University of Bologna. [ 74 ] Among the southern universities, a further distinction has been noted between those of northern Italy, which followed the pattern of Bologna as a "self-regulating, independent corporation of scholars" and those of southern Italy and Iberia, which were "founded by royal and imperial charter to serve the needs of government." [ 75 ] During the Early Modern period (approximately late 15th century to 1800), the universities of Europe would see a tremendous amount of growth, productivity and innovative research. At the end of the Middle Ages, about 400 years after the first European university was founded, there were 29 universities spread throughout Europe. In the 15th century, 28 new ones were created, with another 18 added between 1500 and 1625. [ 78 ] This pace continued until by the end of the 18th century there were approximately 143 universities in Europe, with the highest concentrations in the Holy Roman Empire (34), Italian countries (26), France (25), and Spain (23) – this was close to a 500% increase over the number of universities toward the end of the Middle Ages. This number does not include the numerous universities that disappeared, or institutions that merged with other universities during this time. [ 79 ] The identification of a university was not necessarily obvious during the early modern period, as the term is applied to a burgeoning number of institutions. In fact, the term "university" was not always used to designate a higher education institution. In Mediterranean countries , the term studium generale was still often used, while "Academy" was common in Northern European countries. [ 80 ] The propagation of universities was not necessarily a steady progression, as the 17th century was rife with events that adversely affected university expansion. Many wars, and especially the Thirty Years' War , disrupted the university landscape throughout Europe at different times. War , plague , famine , regicide , and changes in religious power and structure often adversely affected the societies that provided support for universities. Internal strife within the universities themselves, such as student brawling and absentee professors, acted to destabilize these institutions as well. Universities were also reluctant to give up older curricula, and the continued reliance on the works of Aristotle defied contemporary advancements in science and the arts. [ 81 ] This era was also affected by the rise of the nation-state . As universities increasingly came under state control, or formed under the auspices of the state, the faculty governance model (begun by the University of Paris) became more and more prominent. Although the older student-controlled universities still existed, they slowly started to move toward this structural organization. Control of universities still tended to be independent, although university leadership was increasingly appointed by the state. [ 82 ] Although the structural model provided by the University of Paris, where student members are controlled by faculty "masters", provided a standard for universities, the application of this model took at least three different forms. There were universities that had a system of faculties whose teaching addressed a very specific curriculum; this model tended to train specialists. There was a collegiate or tutorial model based on the system at University of Oxford where teaching and organization was decentralized and knowledge was more of a generalist nature. There were also universities that combined these models, using the collegiate model but having a centralized organization. [ 83 ] Early Modern universities initially continued the curriculum and research of the Middle Ages: natural philosophy , logic, medicine, theology, mathematics, astronomy, astrology, law, grammar and rhetoric . Aristotle was prevalent throughout the curriculum, while medicine also depended on Galen and Arabic scholarship. The importance of humanism for changing this state-of-affairs cannot be underestimated. [ 84 ] Once humanist professors joined the university faculty, they began to transform the study of grammar and rhetoric through the studia humanitatis . Humanist professors focused on the ability of students to write and speak with distinction, to translate and interpret classical texts, and to live honorable lives. [ 85 ] Other scholars within the university were affected by the humanist approaches to learning and their linguistic expertise in relation to ancient texts, as well as the ideology that advocated the ultimate importance of those texts. [ 86 ] Professors of medicine such as Niccolò Leoniceno , Thomas Linacre and William Cop were often trained in and taught from a humanist perspective as well as translated important ancient medical texts. The critical mindset imparted by humanism was imperative for changes in universities and scholarship. For instance, Andreas Vesalius was educated in a humanist fashion before producing a translation of Galen, whose ideas he verified through his own dissections. In law, Andreas Alciatus infused the Corpus Juris with a humanist perspective, while Jacques Cujas humanist writings were paramount to his reputation as a jurist. Philipp Melanchthon cited the works of Erasmus as a highly influential guide for connecting theology back to original texts, which was important for the reform at Protestant universities. [ 87 ] Galileo Galilei , who taught at the Universities of Pisa and Padua , and Martin Luther , who taught at the University of Wittenberg (as did Melanchthon), also had humanist training. The task of the humanists was to slowly permeate the university; to increase the humanist presence in professorships and chairs, syllabi and textbooks so that published works would demonstrate the humanistic ideal of science and scholarship. [ 88 ] Although the initial focus of the humanist scholars in the university was the discovery, exposition and insertion of ancient texts and languages into the university, and the ideas of those texts into society generally, their influence was ultimately quite progressive. The emergence of classical texts brought new ideas and led to a more creative university climate (as the notable list of scholars above attests to). A focus on knowledge coming from self, from the human, has a direct implication for new forms of scholarship and instruction, and was the foundation for what is commonly known as the humanities. This disposition toward knowledge manifested in not simply the translation and propagation of ancient texts, but also their adaptation and expansion. For instance, Vesalius was imperative for advocating the use of Galen, but he also invigorated this text with experimentation, disagreements and further research. [ 89 ] The propagation of these texts, especially within the universities, was greatly aided by the emergence of the printing press and the beginning of the use of the vernacular, which allowed for the printing of relatively large texts at reasonable prices. [ 90 ] Examining the influence of humanism on scholars in medicine, mathematics, astronomy and physics may suggest that humanism and universities were a strong impetus for the scientific revolution. Although the connection between humanism and the scientific discovery may very well have begun within the confines of the university, the connection has been commonly perceived as having been severed by the changing nature of science during the Scientific Revolution . Historians such as Richard S. Westfall have argued that the overt traditionalism of universities inhibited attempts to re-conceptualize nature and knowledge and caused an indelible tension between universities and scientists. [ 91 ] This resistance to changes in science may have been a significant factor in driving many scientists away from the university and toward private benefactors, usually in princely courts, and associations with newly forming scientific societies. [ 92 ] Other historians find incongruity in the proposition that the very place where the vast number of the scholars that influenced the scientific revolution received their education should also be the place that inhibits their research and the advancement of science. In fact, more than 80% of the European scientists between 1450 and 1650 included in the Dictionary of Scientific Biography were university trained, of which approximately 45% held university posts. [ 93 ] It was the case that the academic foundations remaining from the Middle Ages were stable, and they did provide for an environment that fostered considerable growth and development. There was considerable reluctance on the part of universities to relinquish the symmetry and comprehensiveness provided by the Aristotelian system, which was effective as a coherent system for understanding and interpreting the world. However, university professors still have some autonomy, at least in the sciences, to choose epistemological foundations and methods. For instance, Melanchthon and his disciples at University of Wittenberg were instrumental for integrating Copernican mathematical constructs into astronomical debate and instruction. [ 94 ] Another example was the short-lived but fairly rapid adoption of Cartesian epistemology and methodology in European universities, and the debates surrounding that adoption, which led to more mechanistic approaches to scientific problems as well as demonstrated an openness to change. There are many examples which belie the commonly perceived intransigence of universities. [ 95 ] Although universities may have been slow to accept new sciences and methodologies as they emerged, when they did accept new ideas it helped to convey legitimacy and respectability, and supported the scientific changes through providing a stable environment for instruction and material resources. [ 96 ] Regardless of the way the tension between universities, individual scientists, and the scientific revolution itself is perceived, there was a discernible impact on the way that university education was constructed. Aristotelian epistemology provided a coherent framework not simply for knowledge and knowledge construction, but also for the training of scholars within the higher education setting. The creation of new scientific constructs during the scientific revolution, and the epistemological challenges that were inherent within this creation, initiated the idea of both the autonomy of science and the hierarchy of the disciplines. Instead of entering higher education to become a "general scholar" immersed in becoming proficient in the entire curriculum, there emerged a type of scholar that put science first and viewed it as a vocation in itself. The divergence between those focused on science and those still entrenched in the idea of a general scholar exacerbated the epistemological tensions that were already beginning to emerge. [ 97 ] The epistemological tensions between scientists and universities were also heightened by the economic realities of research during this time, as individual scientists, associations and universities were vying for limited resources. There was also competition from the formation of new colleges funded by private benefactors and designed to provide free education to the public, or established by local governments to provide a knowledge-hungry populace with an alternative to traditional universities. [ 98 ] Even when universities supported new scientific endeavors, and the university provided foundational training and authority for the research and conclusions, they could not compete with the resources available through private benefactors. [ 99 ] By the end of the early modern period, the structure and orientation of higher education had changed in ways that are eminently recognizable for the modern context. Aristotle was no longer a force providing the epistemological and methodological focus for universities and a more mechanistic orientation was emerging. The hierarchical place of theological knowledge had for the most part been displaced and the humanities had become a fixture, and a new openness was beginning to take hold in the construction and dissemination of knowledge that were to become imperative for the formation of the modern state. Modern universities constitute a guild or quasi-guild system. This facet of the university system did not change due to its peripheral standing in an industrialized economy; as commerce developed between towns in Europe during the Middle Ages, though other guilds stood in the way of developing commerce and therefore were eventually abolished, the scholars guild did not. According to historian Elliot Krause, "The university and scholars' guilds held onto their power over membership, training, and workplace because early capitalism was not interested in it." [ 100 ] By the 18th century, universities published their own research journals and by the 19th century, the German and the French university models had arisen. The German, or Humboldtian model, was conceived by Wilhelm von Humboldt and based on Friedrich Schleiermacher 's liberal ideas pertaining to the importance of freedom , seminars , and laboratories in universities. [ citation needed ] The French university model involved strict discipline and control over every aspect of the university. Until the 19th century, religion played a significant role in university curriculum; however, the role of religion in research universities decreased during that century. By the end of the 19th century, the German university model had spread around the world. Universities concentrated on science in the 19th and 20th centuries and became increasingly accessible to the masses. In the United States, the Johns Hopkins University was the first to adopt the (German) research university model and pioneered the adoption of that model by most American universities. When Johns Hopkins was founded in 1876, "nearly the entire faculty had studied in Germany." [ 101 ] In England, the move from Industrial Revolution to modernity saw the arrival of new civic university colleges with an emphasis on science and engineering in the late 19th century, which became the redbrick universities in the early 20th century. [ 102 ] In Scotland, the Andersonian Institute, founded in the late 18th century with a similar emphasis, became the University of Strathclyde in the 1960s as the first new university in Scotland since Edinburgh in the 16th century. [ 103 ] The British also established universities worldwide, and higher education became available to the masses not only in Europe. In 1963, the Robbins Report on universities in the United Kingdom concluded that such institutions should have four main "objectives essential to any properly balanced system: instruction in skills; the promotion of the general powers of the mind so as to produce not mere specialists but rather cultivated men and women; to maintain research in balance with teaching, since teaching should not be separated from the advancement of learning and the search for truth; and to transmit a common culture and common standards of citizenship." [ 104 ] In the early 21st century, concerns were raised over the increasing managerialisation and standardisation of universities worldwide. Neo-liberal management models have in this sense been critiqued for creating "corporate universities (where) power is transferred from faculty to managers, economic justifications dominate, and the familiar 'bottom line' eclipses pedagogical or intellectual concerns". [ 105 ] Academics' understanding of time, pedagogical pleasure, vocation, and collegiality have been cited as possible ways of alleviating such problems. [ 106 ] A national university is generally a university created or run by a national state but at the same time represents a state autonomic institution which functions as a completely independent body inside of the same state. Some national universities are closely associated with national cultural , religious or political aspirations, for instance the National University of Ireland , which formed partly from the Catholic University of Ireland which was created almost immediately and specifically in answer to the non-denominational universities which had been set up in Ireland in 1850. In the years leading up to the Easter Rising , and in no small part a result of the Gaelic Romantic revivalists, the NUI collected a large amount of information on the Irish language and Irish culture . [ citation needed ] Reforms in Argentina were the result of the University Revolution of 1918 and its posterior reforms by incorporating values that sought for a more equal and laic [ further explanation needed ] higher education system. Universities created by bilateral or multilateral treaties between states are intergovernmental . An example is the Academy of European Law , which offers training in European law to lawyers, judges, barristers, solicitors, in-house counsel and academics. EUCLID (Pôle Universitaire Euclide, Euclid University) is chartered as a university and umbrella organization dedicated to sustainable development in signatory countries, and the United Nations University engages in efforts to resolve the pressing global problems that are of concern to the United Nations, its peoples and member states. The European University Institute , a post-graduate university specialized in the social sciences, is officially an intergovernmental organization, set up by the member states of the European Union . Although each institution is organized differently, nearly all universities have a board of trustees; a president, chancellor , or rector ; at least one vice president, vice-chancellor, or vice-rector; and deans of various divisions. Universities are generally divided into a number of academic departments, schools or faculties . They review financial requests and budget proposals and then allocate funds for each university in the system. They also approve new programs of instruction and cancel or make changes in existing programs. In addition, they plan for the further coordinated growth and development of the various institutions of higher education in the state or country. Many universities in the world have a considerable degree of financial, research and pedagogical autonomy. Private universities are privately funded and generally have broader independence from state policies. The funding and organization of universities varies widely between different countries around the world. In some countries universities are predominantly funded by the state, while in others funding may come from donors or from fees which students attending the university must pay. In some countries the vast majority of students attend university in their local town, while in other countries universities attract students from all over the world, and may provide university accommodation for their students. [ 107 ] The definition of a university varies widely, even within some countries. Where there is clarification, it is usually set by a government agency. For example: In Australia, the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA) is Australia's independent national regulator of the higher education sector. Students rights within university are also protected by the Education Services for Overseas Students Act (ESOS). In the United States there is no nationally standardized definition for the term university , although the term has traditionally been used to designate research institutions and was once reserved for doctorate-granting research institutions. Some states, such as Massachusetts , will only grant a school "university status" if it grants at least two doctoral degrees . [ 108 ] In the United Kingdom, the Privy Council is responsible for approving the use of the word university in the name of an institution, under the terms of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 . [ 109 ] In India, a new designation deemed universities has been created for institutions of higher education that are not universities, but work at a very high standard in a specific area of study ("An Institution of Higher Education, other than universities, working at a very high standard in specific area of study, can be declared by the Central Government on the advice of the University Grants Commission as an Institution (Deemed-to-be-university). Institutions that are 'deemed-to-be-university' enjoy the academic status and the privileges of a university. [ 111 ] Through this provision many schools that are commercial in nature and have been established just to exploit the demand for higher education have sprung up. [ 112 ] In Canada, college generally refers to a two-year, non-degree-granting institution, while university connotes a four-year, degree-granting institution. Universities may be sub-classified (as in the Macleans rankings ) into large research universities with many PhD-granting programs and medical schools (for example, McGill University ); "comprehensive" universities that have some PhDs but are not geared toward research (such as Waterloo ); and smaller, primarily undergraduate universities (such as St. Francis Xavier ). In Germany, universities are institutions of higher education which have the power to confer bachelor, master and PhD degrees. They are explicitly recognised as such by law and cannot be founded without government approval. The term Universität (i.e. the German term for university) is protected by law and any use without official approval is a criminal offense. Most of them are public institutions, though a few private universities exist. Such universities are always research universities. Apart from these universities, Germany has other institutions of higher education (Hochschule, Fachhochschule ). Fachhochschule means a higher education institution which is similar to the former polytechnics in the British education system, the English term used for these German institutions is usually 'university of applied sciences'. They can confer master's degrees but no PhDs. They are similar to the model of teaching universities with less research and the research undertaken being highly practical. Hochschule can refer to various kinds of institutions, often specialised in a certain field (e.g. music, fine arts, business). They might or might not have the power to award PhD degrees, depending on the respective government legislation. If they award PhD degrees, their rank is considered equivalent to that of universities proper (Universität), if not, their rank is equivalent to universities of applied sciences. Colloquially, the term university may be used to describe a phase in one's life: "When I was at university..." (in the United States and Ireland, college is often used instead: "When I was in college..."). In Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, Nigeria, the Netherlands, Spain and the German-speaking countries , university is often contracted to uni . In Ghana, New Zealand, Bangladesh and in South Africa it is sometimes called "varsity" (although this has become uncommon in New Zealand in recent years). "Varsity" was also common usage in the UK in the 19th century. [ citation needed ] In many countries, students are required to pay tuition fees.
Many students look to get 'student grants' to cover the cost of university. In 2016, the average outstanding student loan balance per borrower in the United States was US$30,000. [ 113 ] In many U.S. states, costs are anticipated to rise for students as a result of decreased state funding given to public universities. [ 114 ] Many universities in the United States offer students the opportunity to apply for financial scholarships to help pay for tuition based on academic achievement. There are several major exceptions on tuition fees. In many European countries, it is possible to study without tuition fees. Public universities in Nordic countries were entirely without tuition fees until around 2005. Denmark, Sweden and Finland then moved to put in place tuition fees for foreign students. Citizens of EU and EEA member states and citizens from Switzerland remain exempted from tuition fees, and the amounts of public grants granted to promising foreign students were increased to offset some of the impact. [ 115 ] The situation in Germany is similar; public universities usually do not charge tuition fees apart from a small administrative fee. For degrees of a postgraduate professional level sometimes tuition fees are levied. Private universities, however, almost always charge tuition fees. The Quaraouiyine Mosque, founded in 859, is the most famous mosque of Morocco and attracted continuous investment by Muslim rulers. As for the nature of its curriculum, it was typical of other major madrasahs such as al-Azhar and Al Quaraouiyine, though many of the texts used at the institution came from Muslim Spain...Al Quaraouiyine began its life as a small mosque constructed in 859 C.E. by means of an endowment bequeathed by a wealthy woman of much piety, Fatima bint Muhammed al-Fahri. Higher education has always been an integral part of Morocco, going back to the ninth century when the Karaouine Mosque was established. The madrasa , known today as Al Qayrawaniyan University, became part of the state university system in 1947. Madrasa, in modern usage, the name of an institution of learning where the Islamic sciences are taught, i.e. a college for higher studies, as opposed to an elementary school of traditional type (kuttab); in medieval usage, essentially a college of law in which the other Islamic sciences, including literary and philosophical ones, were ancillary subjects only. A madrasa is a college of Islamic law. The madrasa was an educational institution in which Islamic law (fiqh) was taught according to one or more Sunni rites: Maliki, Shafi'i, Hanafi, or Hanbali. It was supported by an endowment or charitable trust (waqf) that provided for at least one chair for one professor of law, income for other faculty or staff, scholarships for students, and funds for the maintenance of the building. Madrasas contained lodgings for the professor and some of his students. Subjects other than law were frequently taught in madrasas, and even Sufi seances were held in them, but there could be no madrasa without law as technically the major subject. In studying an institution which is foreign and remote in point of time, as is the case of the medieval madrasa, one runs the double risk of attributing to it characteristics borrowed from one's own institutions and one's own times. Thus gratuitous transfers may be made from one culture to the other, and the time factor may be ignored or dismissed as being without significance. One cannot therefore be too careful in attempting a comparative study of these two institutions: the madrasa and the university. But in spite of the pitfalls inherent in such a study, albeit sketchy, the results which may be obtained are well worth the risks involved. In any case, one cannot avoid making comparisons when certain unwarranted statements have already been made and seem to be currently accepted without question. The most unwarranted of these statements is the one which makes of the "madrasa" a "university". al-qarawiyin is the oldest university in Morocco. It was founded as a mosque in Fès in the middle of the ninth century. It has been a destination for students and scholars of Islamic sciences and Arabic studies throughout the history of Morocco. There were also other religious schools like the madras of ibn yusuf and other schools in the sus. This system of basic education called al-ta'lim al-aSil was funded by the sultans of Morocco and many famous traditional families. After independence, al-qarawiyin maintained its reputation, but it seemed important to transform it into a university that would prepare graduates for a modern country while maintaining an emphasis on Islamic studies. Hence, al-qarawiyin university was founded in February 1963 and, while the dean's residence was kept in Fès, the new university initially had four colleges located in major regions of the country known for their religious influences and madrasas. These colleges were kuliyat al-shari's in Fès, kuliyat uSul al-din in Tétouan, kuliyat al-lugha al-'arabiya in Marrakech (all founded in 1963), and kuliyat al-shari'a in Ait Melloul near Agadir, which was founded in 1979.

A scholarship is a form of financial aid awarded to students for further education . Generally, scholarships are awarded based on a set of criteria such as academic merit, diversity and inclusion , athletic skill, and financial need, research experience or specific professional experience. Scholarship criteria usually reflect the values and goals of the donor of the award. While scholarship recipients are not required to repay scholarships, the awards may require that the recipient continue to meet certain requirements during their period of support, such as maintaining a minimum grade point average or engaging in a certain activity (e.g., playing on a school sports team for athletic scholarship holders). [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Scholarships also range in generosity; some cover partial tuition , while others offer a 'full-ride', covering all tuition, accommodation, housing and others. Historically, scholarships originated as acts of religious and philanthropic charity in medieval Europe before evolving into institutional tools of social mobility and national development. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] From early support offered at universities such as the University of Bologna and Harvard University to the standardized merit-based aid of the 20th century, scholarships reflect evolving educational priorities. [ 3 ] [ 5 ] In recent decades, scholarships have also become vital to public policy. They are increasingly used by governments and organizations to promote educational equity, economic development, and poverty alleviation . [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] International frameworks such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4 note the key role of scholarships in expanding educational access for disadvantaged learners to meet national and global development goals. At the same time, rising enrollment and reduced public funding has increased reliance on donor-supported scholarships and cost-sharing models, which further position scholarships as essential mechanisms in offsetting the burden of educational expenses. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] Some prestigious, highly competitive scholarships are well-known even outside the academic community, such as Fulbright Scholarship and the Rhodes Scholarships at the graduate level, and the Robertson , Morehead-Cain and Jefferson Scholarships at the undergraduate level. While the terms scholarship and grant are frequently used interchangeably, they are distinctly different. Where grants are offered based exclusively on financial need, scholarships may have a financial need component but rely on other criteria as well. [ 11 ] A federal Pell Grant can be awarded to someone planning to receive their undergraduate degree and is solely based on their financial needs. [ 12 ] The most common scholarships may be classified as: One of the earliest examples of organized financial support for students is at the oldest operating university , the University of Bologna , in the 12th century. There, students formed associations called nations based on their geographic origins and pooled resources in "loan chests" to help one another pay off debts and educational expenses. [ 3 ] The origins of modern scholarships trace back to medieval Europe in the 13th and 14th centuries, where they took the form of charitable patronage. Initially, financial support for students was provided as a gift between wealthy families, with later funding extended to low-income students as acts of piety, penance, or mercy. The ethos of supporting students was rooted in Christian teachings that emphasized care of the poor and the promotion of pious learning. [ 4 ] European philanthropic traditions continued as institutions of higher education emerged in the colonies in North America . Wealthy colonists held philanthropic roles in the sponsorship and patronage of grade schools and higher learning institutions. In 1643, Lady Anne Radcliffe Mowlson donated £100 to Harvard College to aid poor students in their pursuit of education, marking one of the first formal scholarship endowments in the United States. This set the precedent for philanthropic scholarship at all levels of education. [ 3 ] In 1838, Harvard University created the Harvard Loan Program, one of the first institutional loan programs. It provided zero-interest loans to students unable to afford tuition. This model expanded across higher learning institutions to help students gain access to education through charitable lending. [ 3 ] The 19th century also saw a broader emphasis on civic virtue and meritocratic ideals. Financial aid became aligned with the belief that supporting students would foster an educated citizenry and national development. [ 4 ] The introduction of standardized testing became a turning point for scholarship distribution. American universities began using standardized tests such as the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) in the late 1920s, with Harvard adopting it in 1934 to expand scholarship eligibility to identify talented students for scholarship funding, promoting merit-based aid rather than need-based aid. [ 5 ] [ 25 ] Following World War II , the U.S. passed the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944 (G.I. Bill), which dramatically expanded access to education through government scholarships and loans for veterans. This development marked a shift toward greater governmental responsibility in financing and coordinating higher education. [ 3 ] Scholarships have increasingly been recognized by governments and international organizations as tools for achieving development objectives, poverty alleviation , and promoting equitable access to education. Higher education supported through scholarships has been described as an "engine of development" that fosters industrialization, economic growth, and the training of skilled professionals across sectors. [ 6 ] The United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4 , Quality Education, emphasizes inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning opportunities. Target 4.b specifically calls for the expansion of global scholarships available to students from developing countries, particularly in higher education, technical and vocational education and training , and STEM education. [ 7 ] UNESCO's Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action for the implementation of SDG 4 describes scholarships as a means to promote international knowledge exchange and improve access for marginalized learners. In 2010, scholarships accounted for a quarter of total educational aid, averaging $3.2 billion USD annually. [ 8 ] UNESCO's 2002 analysis on financing education found that beyond individual benefits, equitable scholarship distribution contributes to broader economic and social returns, including increased productivity, civic engagement, and national capacity-building. [ 9 ] At the start of the 21st century, higher education faced unprecedented demand from individuals seeking upward economic mobility and from governments pursuing national development. However, rising enrollment and limited public budgets created financial pressures across education systems. Governments also faced competing social priorities, contributing to reduced state funding and a growing reliance on non-governmental revenue sources for educational access. [ 6 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] In this context, some policymakers argue that meeting the increasing demands of secondary and post-secondary education requires greater cost-sharing by students and their families. [ 9 ] Educator Donald Bruce Johnstone describes cost sharing as the distribution of educational expenses among governments, parents, students, and donors. [ 10 ] This shift often involved the introduction of user fees, particularly in higher education where individual returns are highest, alongside increased reliance on donor-supported financing. [ 9 ] As tuition fees rose and public subsidies declined education systems transitioned from state-dominated financing to multi-source funding, relying on donations, fundraising, scholarships, and contributions from private and civil society actors. [ 6 ] [ 10 ] Other policy makers and experts, however, caution that these measures may restrict access for poorer households and deepen existing inequalities. [ 9 ] Scholarships maintain an essential role in this new policy environment. As public subsidies decline, scholarship programs supported by institutions, international donors, and philanthropic groups have become central to preserving access to education for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. While cost sharing has allowed some higher education institutions to expand enrollment, it has also reinforced the function of scholarships as essential tools for addressing access gaps left by declining public investment and offsetting the rising costs borne by students and their families. [ 6 ] [ 10 ]

 Tertiary education (also called higher education or post-secondary education ) is the educational level following the completion of secondary education . The World Bank defines tertiary education as including universities , colleges , and vocational schools . [ 1 ] Higher education is taken to include undergraduate and postgraduate education , while vocational education beyond secondary education is known as further education in the United Kingdom , or included under the category of continuing education in the United States . Tertiary education generally culminates in the receipt of certificates , diplomas , or academic degrees . Higher education represents levels 5, 6, 7, and 8 of the 2011 version of the International Standard Classification of Education structure. Tertiary education at a nondegree level is sometimes referred to as further education or continuing education as distinct from higher education. UNESCO stated that tertiary education focuses on learning endeavors in specialized fields. It includes academic and higher vocational education. [ 2 ] The World Bank 's 2019 World Development Report on the future of work [ 3 ] argues that given the future of work and the increasing role of technology in value chains, tertiary education is becoming even more relevant for workers to compete in the labor market. Higher education, also called post-secondary education, third-level or tertiary education, is an optional final stage of formal learning that occurs after completion of secondary education . This consists of universities , colleges and polytechnics that offer formal degrees beyond high school or secondary school education. The International Standard Classification of Education in 1997 initially classified all tertiary education together in the 1997 version of its schema. They were referred to as level 5 and doctoral studies at level 6. In 2011, this was refined and expanded in the 2011 version of the structure. Higher education at undergraduate level, masters and doctoral level became levels 6, 7, and 8. Nondegree level tertiary education, sometimes referred to as further education or continuing education was reordered as level 4, with level 5 for some higher courses. [ 4 ] In the days when few pupils progressed beyond primary education or basic education , the term "higher education" was often used to refer to secondary education, which can create some confusion. [ note 1 ] This is the origin of the term high school for various schools for children between the ages of 14 and 18 (United States) or 11 and 18 (United Kingdom and Australia). [ 5 ] The oldest known institutions of higher education are credited to Dynastic Egypt, with Pr-Anx (houses of life) built as libraries and scriptoriums, containing works on law, architecture, mathematics, and medicine, and involved in the training of "swnw" and "swnwt" (male and female doctors ); extant Egyptian papyri from the 3rd millennia BC are in several collections. [ 8 ] In the Greek world, Plato's Academy ( c. 387–86 BCE ), Aristotle's Lyceum ( c. 334–86 BCE ) and other philosophical-mathematical schools became models for other establishments, particularly in Alexandria of Egypt, under the Ptolemies . In South Asia , the city of Taxila [ when? ] , later the great Buddhist monastery of Nalanda ( c. 427–1197 CE ), attracted students and professors even from distant regions. [ 9 ] In China , the Han dynasty established chairs to teach the Five Confucean Classics , in the Grand School, Taixue ( c. 3–1905 CE ), to train cadres for the imperial administration. [ 10 ] [ 11 ] All these higher-learning institutions became models for other schools within their sphere of cultural influence. [ 12 ] In 425 CE, the Byzantine emperor Theodosius II innovated as he established the Pandidakterion , with a faculty of 31 professors, to train public servants. In the 7th and 8th centuries, "cathedral schools" were created in Western Europe. Meanwhile, the first Madrasahs were founded in the Muslim empire – initially mere primary schools in the premises of major mosques, which gradually evolved toward secondary, later higher education. However high the intellectual level of these schools could be, it would be anachronistic to call them "universities". Their organization and purposes were markedly different from the corporations of students and teachers, independent from both the Church and the State, which established themselves from the 12th century in Western Europe as Universitas Studiorum . [ citation needed ] According to UNESCO and Guinness World Records , the University of al-Qarawiyyin in Fez, Morocco is the oldest existing continually operating higher educational institution in the world. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] and is occasionally referred to as the oldest university by scholars. [ 15 ] Undoubtedly, there are older institutions of higher education, for example, the University of Ez-Zitouna in Montfleury, Tunis , was first established in 737. The University of Bologna , Italy, founded in 1088, is the world's oldest university in continuous operation, [ 16 ] [ 17 ] [ 18 ] [ 19 ] [ 20 ] and the first university in the sense of a higher-learning and degree-awarding institute, as the word universitas was coined at its foundation. [ 16 ] [ 17 ] [ 18 ] [ 19 ] Since World War II , developed and many developing countries have increased the participation of the age group who mostly studies higher education from the elite rate, of up to 15 per cent, to the mass rate of 16 to 50 per cent. [ 21 ] [ 22 ] In many developed countries, participation in higher education has continued to increase towards universal or, what Trow later called, open access, where over half of the relevant age group participate in higher education. [ 23 ] Higher education is important to national economies , both as an industry, in its own right, and as a source of trained and educated personnel for the rest of the economy. College educated workers have commanded a measurable wage premium and are much less likely to become unemployed than less educated workers. [ 24 ] [ 25 ] In recent years, universities have been criticized for permitting or actively encouraging grade inflation . [ 26 ] [ 27 ] Widening participation can increase the supply of graduates in individual fields of study over the demand for their skills, aggravating graduate unemployment , underemployment , overqualification and educational inflation . [ 28 ] [ 29 ] Some commentators have suggested that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on education is rapidly making certain aspects of the traditional higher education system obsolete. [ 30 ] The Israeli-funded Institute for the Study of Global Antisemitism and Policy and some Israeli media have claimed that involvement and funding by Qatar in higher education in the US has resulted in what they regard as growing anti-Semitism on campuses, in particular in connection with Gaza war protests . [ 31 ] [ better source needed ] [ 32 ] Globally, the gross enrollment ratio in tertiary education increased from 19% in 2000 to 38% in 2017. [ 33 ] The tertiary gross enrollment ratio ranges from 9% in low-income countries to 77% in high-income countries , where, after rapid growth in the 2000s, reached a plateau in the 2010s. [ 33 ] Since 1990s men are underrepresented among tertiary education students in most developed countries. [ 34 ] Between now and 2030, the biggest increase in tertiary enrollment ratios is expected in middle-income countries, where it will reach 52%. Sustainable Development Goal 4 (SDG 4) commits countries to providing lifelong learning opportunities for all, including tertiary education. [ 33 ] This commitment is monitored through the global indicator for target 4.3 in the sustainable development goal 4 (SDG 4), which measures the participation rate of youth and adults in formal and non-formal education and training in the previous 12 months, whether for work or non-work purposes. [ 33 ] The right of access to higher education is mentioned in a number of international human rights instruments . The UN International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 1966 declares, in Article 13, that "higher education shall be made equally accessible to all, on the basis of capacity, by every appropriate means, and in particular by the progressive introduction of free education". [ 35 ] In Europe , Article 2 of the First Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights , adopted in 1950, obliges all signatory parties to guarantee the right to education . [ 36 ] [ 37 ] University completion rates for students with disabilities are much lower compared to completion rates of students without disabilities. [ 38 ] Some tertiary schools have been criticized as having permitted or actively encouraged grade inflation . [ 26 ] [ 39 ] In addition, certain scholars contend that the supply of graduates in some fields of study is exceeding the demand for their skills, aggravating graduate unemployment , underemployment and educational inflation . [ 40 ] [ 41 ] Graduates of tertiary education are likely to have different worldviews and moral values than non-graduates. Graduates are also more likely to embrace cultural and ethnic diversity and express more positive views towards minority groups. For international relationships, graduates are more likely to favor openness, supporting policies like free trade , open borders , and more liberal policies regarding international migration . [ 42 ] Tertiary education has been linked to increases in human capital , economic growth , and higher wages, as well as reductions in poverty . [ 43 ] [ 44 ] [ 45 ] A 2025 study found evidence suggesting that those who attend college are less prone to indoctrination . [ 46 ] Cost-benefit calculation indicate that government investment in higher education results in net fiscal benefits. [ 45 ] In the U.S., higher education is provided by universities , academies , colleges , seminaries , conservatories , and institutes of technology , and certain college-level institutions, including vocational schools , universities of applied sciences, trade schools, and other career-based colleges that award degrees. Tertiary education at a nondegree level is sometimes referred to as further education or continuing education as distinct from higher education. [ 47 ] Higher education includes teaching, research, exacting applied work, as exists in medical schools and dental schools , and social services activities of universities. [ 48 ] Within the realm of teaching, it includes both the undergraduate level, and beyond that, graduate-level (or postgraduate level). The latter level of education is often referred to as graduate school , especially in North America. In addition to the skills that are specific to any particular degree, potential employers in any profession are looking for evidence of critical thinking and analytical reasoning skills, teamworking skills, information literacy , ethical judgment, decision-making skills, fluency in speaking and writing, problem solving skills, and a wide knowledge of liberal arts and sciences. [ 49 ] Foreign tertiary degrees can be validated after credential evaluation , for example according to the Lisbon Recognition Convention . [ 50 ] The total expenditure on tertiary education ( ISCED levels 5 to 8) as a percentage of GDP for individual countries is shown in the following table The percentage of adults who have attained individual tertiary education levels by country is shown in the following table. A 2014 report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development states that by 2014, 84 percent of young people were completing upper secondary education over their lifetimes, in high-income countries. Tertiary-educated individuals were earning twice as much as median workers. Additionally, access to education was expanding and growth in the number of people receiving university education was rising sharply. By 2014, close to 40 percent of people aged 25–34 (and around 25 percent of those aged 55–64), were being educated at university. [ 53 ] Within Australia, "tertiary education" refers to continuing studies after a student completes secondary school. Tertiary education options include universities, technical and further education (TAFE) and private universities. [ 54 ] Although tertiary education in the EU includes university, it can differ from country to country. In Ireland, policy since the 2020s has promoted a more unified tertiary system linking further education and higher education . In 2022, the National Tertiary Office was established within the Higher Education Authority and jointly managed by the HEA and SOLAS to develop joint further-and-higher education degree programmes. [ 55 ] After going to nursery school (French: école maternelle ), elementary school (French: école primaire ), middle school (French: collège ), and high school (French: lycée ), a student may go to university, but may also stop at that point. Education in Italy is compulsory from 6 to 16 years of age, [ 58 ] and is divided into five stages: kindergarten ( scuola dell'infanzia ), primary school ( scuola primaria or scuola elementare ), lower secondary school ( scuola secondaria di primo grado or scuola media inferiore ), upper secondary school ( scuola secondaria di secondo grado or scuola media superiore ) and university ( università ). [ 59 ] Education is free in Italy and free education is available to children of all nationalities who are residents in Italy. Italy has both a private and public education system. [ 60 ] Italy has a large and international network of public or state-affiliated universities and schools offering degrees in higher education. State-run universities of Italy constitute the main percentage of tertiary education in Italy and are managed under the supervision of Italian's Ministry of Education. Italian universities are among the oldest universities in the world; the University of Bologna (founded in 1088) notably, is the oldest one ever ; also, University of Naples Federico II is the world's oldest state-funded university in continuous operation. [ 63 ] [ 7 ] Most universities in Italy are state-supported. 33 Italian universities were ranked among the world's top 500 in 2019, the third-largest number in Europe after the United Kingdom and Germany. [ 64 ] There are also a number of Superior Graduate Schools ( Grandes écoles ) [ 65 ] or Scuola Superiore Universitaria , which offer officially recognized titles, including the Diploma di Perfezionamento equivalent to a Doctorate, Dottorato di Ricerca i.e. Research Doctorate or Doctor Philosophiae i.e. PhD. [ 66 ] Some of them also organize master's degree courses. There are three Superior Graduate Schools with "university status", three institutes with the status of Doctoral Colleges, which function at graduate and post-graduate level. Nine further schools are direct offshoots of the universities (i.e. do not have their own 'university status'). The first one is the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa (founded in 1810 by Napoleon as a branch of École Normale Supérieure ), taking the model of organization from the famous École Normale Supérieure . These institutions are commonly referred to as "Schools of Excellence" (i.e. "Scuole di Eccellenza"). [ 65 ] Italy hosts a broad variety of universities, colleges and academies. Founded in 1088, the University of Bologna is likely the oldest in the world . [ 67 ] In 2009, the University of Bologna is, according to The Times , the only Italian college in the top 200 World Universities. Milan's Bocconi University has been ranked among the top 20 best business schools in the world by The Wall Street Journal international rankings, especially thanks to its M.B.A. program, which in 2007 placed it no. 17 in the world in terms of graduate recruitment preference by major multinational companies. [ 68 ] Bocconi was also ranked by Forbes as the best worldwide in the specific category Value for Money. [ 69 ] In May 2008, Bocconi overtook several traditionally top global business schools in the Financial Times Executive education ranking, reaching no. 5 in Europe and no. 15 in the world. [ 70 ] Other top universities and polytechnics are the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore in Milan, the LUISS in Rome, the Polytechnic University of Turin , the Politecnico di Milano (which in 2011 was ranked as the 48th best technical university in the world by QS World University Rankings [ 71 ] ), the University of Rome La Sapienza (which in 2005 was Europe's 33rd best university, [ 72 ] and ranks among Europe's 50 and the world's 150 best colleges [ 73 ] and in 2013, the Center for World University Rankings ranked the Sapienza University of Rome 62nd in the world and the top in Italy in its World University Rankings . [ 74 ] ) and the University of Milan (whose research and teaching activities have developed over the years and have received important international recognition). This university is the only Italian member of the League of European Research Universities (LERU), a prestigious group of twenty research-intensive European Universities. It has also been awarded ranking positions such as 1st in Italy and 7th in Europe (The Leiden Ranking – Universiteit Leiden). Tertiary education in Kazakhstan is governed by the Law on Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan, model rules for higher-education institutions, and individual university charters. [ 75 ] [ 76 ] It encompasses universities and other higher-education institutions, with governance structures defined by law and institutional statutes. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education supervises accreditation, licensing, and quality assurance for tertiary institutions. Rectors and academic councils manage day-to-day operations within universities and colleges, while individual charters provide additional rules for governance, curricula, and institutional procedures. Students have the right to access state-guaranteed higher education, subject to admission requirements and state regulations. [ 75 ] Under devolution in the United Kingdom , education is administered separately in England, Wales, Northern Ireland, and Scotland. In England, the term "tertiary education" aligns with the global term "higher education" (i.e. post-18 study). [ 77 ] In 2018 the Welsh Government adopted the term "tertiary education" to refer to post-16 education and training in Wales. [ 78 ] Since the 1970s, however, specialized further education colleges in England and Wales have called themselves " tertiary colleges " although being part of the secondary education process. These institutions cater for both school leavers and adults, thus combining the main functions of an FE college and a sixth form college . [ 79 ] Generally, district councils with such colleges have adopted a tertiary system or structure where a single local institution provides all the 16–19 and adult education, and where schools do not universally offer sixth forms (i.e. schools only serve ages 11–16). However the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 has effectively prevented the creation of new tertiary colleges. [ 80 ] Higher education in Canada includes provincial, territorial, Indigenous and military higher education systems. The ideal objective of Canadian higher education is to offer every Canadian the opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to realize their utmost potential. It aspires to cultivate a world-class workforce, enhance the employment rate of Canadians, and safeguard Canada's enduring prosperity. Higher education programs are intricately designed with the perspective of the learner in focus, striving to mitigate risks and assure definite outcomes. [ 82 ] The higher education system in the United States is decentralized and regulated independently by each state [ 83 ] with accreditors playing a key role in ensuring institutions meet minimum standards. It is large and diverse with institutions that are privately governed and institutions that are owned and operated by state and local governments. Some private institutions are affiliated with religious organizations whereas others are secular with enrollment ranging from a few dozen to tens of thousands of students. The United States Department of Education presents a broad-spectrum view of tertiary education and detailed information on the nation's educational structure, accreditation procedures, and connections to state as well as federal agencies and entities. [ 84 ] The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education provides one framework for classifying U.S. colleges and universities in several different ways. [ 85 ] US tertiary education also includes various non-profit organizations promoting professional development of individuals in the field of higher education and helping expand awareness of related issues like international student services and complete campus internationalization. [ 86 ] [ 87 ] In Nigeria, tertiary education refers to post-secondary education received at universities (government or privately funded), monotechnics, polytechnics and colleges of education. After completing a secondary education, students may enroll in a tertiary institution or acquire a vocational education . Students are required to sit for the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board Entrance Examination (JAMB) as well as the Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSCE) or General Certificate Examination (GCE) and meet varying cut-off marks to gain admission into a tertiary institution. [ 88 ] According to MEXT (Ministry of Education) and UNESCO, following types of education are classified as tertiary education: University education (undergraduate, postgraduate and professional degrees), two-year colleges ( Tanki Daigaku ), colleges of technology and specialised colleges. [ 89 ] In Hong Kong "tertiary education" or "higher education" refers to any education higher than secondary education. Tertiary education includes universities, post secondary colleges, statutory universities, and publicly funded institutions. In Singapore, "tertiary education" or "Post-secondary Education" refers to any education higher than secondary education. Tertiary education includes, Junior Colleges , Centralised institutes , Polytechnics , the Institute of Technical Education and Universities .

